So remember we talked about the enhanced
for loop when we discussed arrays.
We use these for the array,
but you can also use
them to loop through collections,
all right?
So we're going to actually iterate through
that list using the enhanced for loop.
Okay, so going back to collections demo,
I'm going to comment out set demo and
uncomment out list demo.
Did I say list?
Yes, all right, great.
So inside of list,
before we do all of this stuff,
we'll comment all this out so
we don't get confused.
And let's go ahead and
add some looping in here.
So, again, a reminder that enhance for
loop works like you put for
and then inside of this you
would need to define the variable
that you want each object
to be assigned to every
time this loop runs, right?
So we say String fruit, and
we would like to iterate over the list,
okay?
Now, we have an error here, and
the reason that we have
an error here is because
we used a little bit of a shortcut
when we defined our collection.
And, when we did this Java,
notice I used var somewhere, hold on.
I used var here under removed.
And notice when I said that,
what was returned back to me
was a generic object, right?
So when I made queue here, I didn't
specify what type of data thet it holds,
so it's is holds any type
of object by default.
It's best practice to be specific
on the type of objects that
your collection can hold and
more specifically is
required if you're gonna try
to use this enhanced for loop.
So the way that we specify that hey,
this is be a list of strings
is in these angle brackets,
you would write the object type.
And notice that error on enhance for
loop went away.
The reason that error was there,
again is a part of where I'm
saying I have an object and
I'm trying to store an object into
a string variable, I can't do that, right?
It's a different type.
Okay, so once you have defined
what type of collection it is,
what's the data it'll hold,
you can use the enhance for
loop and
then it gets pretty straightforward.
We could just say print out the fruit.
And remember fruit, again, is each
individual element within the collection.
So when we print this,
boom, we see that each line
Questions on enhanced for loop, yeah?
>> I got a question on that type.
>> Yeah.
>> So before you specified string for
list, now wants us to at least put
an empty angle brackets next to ArrayList.
>> He recommended that for you?
>> Yeah, I think that's right.
>> I don't have a problem.
It's probably a suggestion.
So you might have flagged it as a warning,
all right?
So, they want you to do this.
Is that right?
Where does it go?
Before the thing, I mean,
in my opinion, it's overkill but
if you care about warnings,
[LAUGH] which you should,
then yeah, you could add it there as well.
I never do just because it's just too much
it's too much and I don't need it, right?
But it does help with just making sure
everything is safe that's getting
added by me adding that like that.
Now if I tried to add a different type of
fruit, I mean a different type of object.
Let's say, new rectangle for example.
And let's import that.
Come on.
Then, I would get an error because I said
that this is a string whereas I might not
get an error before.
It'll just let me add that
rectangle because, I don't know,
we just take any kind of object,
polymorphism, right?
But, now that I specified a string,
I can make sure that the only things
that are being added are actual strings.
All right, so I want us to look at
the enhanced for loop for a map.
Okay, so map is always gonna kinda
be a little bit differently,
worked a little bit differently.
We'll go ahead and comment out all this
stuff from the main,
I wanna say run the map.
Okay, so close this, and we're in the map.
Map demo method.
All right, so
in order to use the enhanced for
loop, again you start with the for.
Now, remember in the slides I said
map dot entry is what you get from,
iterating through these things, so
that would be the type, Map.Entry.
And we'll call this calorieInfo, and
then what you're iterating over
is the fruitCalories.entrySet.
Now notice here,
I have a set that is the entry.
I have a set that is just the keys and
then I have a collection
that is just the values.
So, someone asked me earlier about
getting the values and stuff.
You could do that with that values and
that would give you a collection
of just the values.
You can also do just the keys.
If you want the pair
you would do entry set.
Again, we have an error because what?
We did not specify the type
that this map holds, so
we have a string and
we have an integer, not it, right,
because that's not gonna work,
it is not an object.
So I have to use the wrapper class.
Now, that's how I would
use the enhanced for
loop to get inside of a map,
from here, it becomes pretty easy.
I can just say calorieinfo.getKey.
Plus, now I'll do a colon, And
then calorieInfo.getValue.
Okay, let's run map one.
And boom, we see key and
value printed, yeah?
>> You repeat why you have to
use the integer wrapper class?
>> Yes, so
collections can only hold objects,
they can't hold primitive data types.
So integer would be the wrapper
class that represents
an integer data type and
it happens to be an object.
So that's what you would need to use.